1. Quay
https://www.timeout.com/sydney/restaurants/quay
What is it? Sydney’s supreme fine diner and a world-class culinary experience in almost every respect.Why we love it: Where to begin? The dress-circle Harbour views? The exquisite works of art on each and every plate? The custom-made crockery? The cornucopia of produce grown exclusively for the restaurant? The service team’s unrivalled professionalism? Some restaurants are engineered for special occasions and totally worth the splurge – this is most definitely one of them. Time Out tip: Historically, cruise ships sometimes obstructed the Opera House, but in current times there's nothing to get in the way of planning a picture-perfect marriage proposal.  What is it? Sydney’s supreme fine diner and a world-class culinary experience in almost every respect.Why we love it: Where to begin? The dress-circle Harbour views? The exquisite works of art on each and every plate? The custom-made crockery? The cornucopia of produce grown exclusively for the restaurant? The service team’s unrivalled professionalism? Some restaurants are engineered for special occasions and totally worth the splurge – this is most definitely one of them. Time Out tip: Historically, cruise ships sometimes obstructed the Opera House, but in current times there's nothing to get in the way of planning a picture-perfect marriage proposal.  
2. La Salut
https://www.timeout.com/sydney/restaurants/la-salut
What is it? Not quite a bar, not quite a restaurant, this former sports bar at the Norfolk Hotel has transformed - Spanish style.
Why we love it: There are few places in Sydney that fill the much needed void of late night joints to settle in, sip, snack and sip again. What the team at La Salut are able to accomplish out of such a tiny space illustrates how some of the best things in life come out of a tin or a jar and need few embellishments. 
Time Out tip: There are three choices of jamon, served simply on a plate with some crusty bread. Go for the cured pork shoulder, harder working with more flavour.
 What is it? Not quite a bar, not quite a restaurant, this former sports bar at the Norfolk Hotel has transformed - Spanish style.Why we love it: There are few places in Sydney that fill the much needed void of late night joints to settle in, sip, snack and sip again. What the team at La Salut are able to accomplish out of such a tiny space illustrates how some of the best things in life come out of a tin or a jar and need few embellishments. Time Out tip: There are three choices of jamon, served simply on a plate with some crusty bread. Go for the cured pork shoulder, harder working with more flavour. 
3. Lankan Filling Station
https://www.timeout.com/sydney/restaurants/lankan-filling-station

What is it? An inner-city bolthole dishing up hoppers, sambols and cooked-to-order curries with profound depth of flavour, all made from a kaleidoscope of spices ground and roasted in-house. 
Why we love it: Even if you’ve dined at LFS a dozen times, chef-owner O Tama Carey’s vibrant, visceral cooking keeps you coming back. From the tang of the acharu pickles to the bold-as-hell black curry and eye-openingly fragrant love cake, it’s hard to think of more exciting food in Sydney right now.
Time Out tip: The unbeatable Crab Curry banquet ($75pp) has developed a serious cult following and takes place on the last Sunday of every month. Book well ahead.What is it? An inner-city bolthole dishing up hoppers, sambols and cooked-to-order curries with profound depth of flavour, all made from a kaleidoscope of spices ground and roasted in-house. Why we love it: Even if you’ve dined at LFS a dozen times, chef-owner O Tama Carey’s vibrant, visceral cooking keeps you coming back. From the tang of the acharu pickles to the bold-as-hell black curry and eye-openingly fragrant love cake, it’s hard to think of more exciting food in Sydney right now.Time Out tip: The unbeatable Crab Curry banquet ($75pp) has developed a serious cult following and takes place on the last Sunday of every month. Book well ahead.
4. Café Paci
https://www.timeout.com/sydney/restaurants/cafe-paci-1
What is it? A permanent Inner West site for one of the city’s most beloved chefs, spruiking clever cross-cultural share plates as well as a dynamite list of natural wines. 
Why we love it: Paci treads that fine line between European-style wine bar and casual restaurant Sydneysiders know and love, brought to life by a young, energetic service team. And you’ve got to applaud a place with enough moxie to put steak Diane back on the menu in this day and age.
Time Out tip: Chef-owner Pasi Petänen’s signature dessert – sticky licorice cake topped with sweet carrot sorbet, all concealed in a cloud of creamy yoghurt mousse – is unmissable. What is it? A permanent Inner West site for one of the city’s most beloved chefs, spruiking clever cross-cultural share plates as well as a dynamite list of natural wines. Why we love it: Paci treads that fine line between European-style wine bar and casual restaurant Sydneysiders know and love, brought to life by a young, energetic service team. And you’ve got to applaud a place with enough moxie to put steak Diane back on the menu in this day and age.Time Out tip: Chef-owner Pasi Petänen’s signature dessert – sticky licorice cake topped with sweet carrot sorbet, all concealed in a cloud of creamy yoghurt mousse – is unmissable. 
5. Lola's Level 1
https://www.timeout.com/sydney/restaurants/lolas-level-1
What is it? An elegant and refined all-season Med eatery with stunning views and equally beautiful interiors.
Why we love it: Mediterranean by the sea isn't exactly groundbreaking for Bondi however this beauty is the perfect setting for lunch, rain, hail or shine. The interior is textural and moody and morphs beautifully on sunny days to rainy weather. 
Time Out tip: Have a drink at the bar before lunch and toss back a dozen fresh shucked oysters while you're at it.
 What is it? An elegant and refined all-season Med eatery with stunning views and equally beautiful interiors.Why we love it: Mediterranean by the sea isn't exactly groundbreaking for Bondi however this beauty is the perfect setting for lunch, rain, hail or shine. The interior is textural and moody and morphs beautifully on sunny days to rainy weather. Time Out tip: Have a drink at the bar before lunch and toss back a dozen fresh shucked oysters while you're at it. 
6. Saint Peter
https://www.timeout.com/sydney/restaurants/saint-peter
What is it? Certainly Sydney’s – and dare we say Australia’s – most revolutionary seafood restaurant, helmed by superstar chef Josh Niland.
Why we love it: The new chef’s counter format has transformed the squeezy Oxford Street space and makes for a more dramatic and interactive way to enjoy the wizardry on display – think terrine made from coral trout head, striped marlin ‘nduja, dry-aged mahi mahi and even chips made from fish eyes. 
Time Out tip: While the refurb has greatly enhanced the overall experience, the set-up suits groups of two far better than threes or fours. Choose your dining companion wisely. What is it? Certainly Sydney’s – and dare we say Australia’s – most revolutionary seafood restaurant, helmed by superstar chef Josh Niland.Why we love it: The new chef’s counter format has transformed the squeezy Oxford Street space and makes for a more dramatic and interactive way to enjoy the wizardry on display – think terrine made from coral trout head, striped marlin ‘nduja, dry-aged mahi mahi and even chips made from fish eyes. Time Out tip: While the refurb has greatly enhanced the overall experience, the set-up suits groups of two far better than threes or fours. Choose your dining companion wisely. 
7. Ursula's Paddington
https://www.timeout.com/sydney/restaurants/ursulas-paddington
What is it? Phil Wood has new digs and very big shoes to fill. The former Guillaume and Darcy’s local now serves up clean, elegant and flavourful comfort food.
Why we love it: Before skipping town to commandeer the culinary program at Pt. Leo Estate on the Mornington Peninsula, Wood manned the pans under Neil Perry in Sydney for the best part of a decade, as the executive chef at Rockpool and its short-lived successor, Eleven Bridge. In those kitchens, he melded Asian flavours, top-drawer Australian produce and high-wire French technique with an often extraordinary degree of finesse. In this one, where he’s playing the chef-owner role for the first time (along with partner in business and life, Lis Davies), the motifs are not dissimilar, but the end results are far less tightly wound.
Time Out tip: Brioche rolls make for an excellent cacio e pepe mop.
 What is it? Phil Wood has new digs and very big shoes to fill. The former Guillaume and Darcy’s local now serves up clean, elegant and flavourful comfort food.Why we love it: Before skipping town to commandeer the culinary program at Pt. Leo Estate on the Mornington Peninsula, Wood manned the pans under Neil Perry in Sydney for the best part of a decade, as the executive chef at Rockpool and its short-lived successor, Eleven Bridge. In those kitchens, he melded Asian flavours, top-drawer Australian produce and high-wire French technique with an often extraordinary degree of finesse. In this one, where he’s playing the chef-owner role for the first time (along with partner in business and life, Lis Davies), the motifs are not dissimilar, but the end results are far less tightly wound.Time Out tip: Brioche rolls make for an excellent cacio e pepe mop. 
8. Sixpenny
https://www.timeout.com/sydney/restaurants/sixpenny
What is it? One of Australia’s most cherished restaurants, tucked away in an unassuming Stanmore corner terrace.
Why we love it: Even though this is about as big-ticket as restaurants get, the intimate and unpretentious mood will make you feel right at home. Chef Dan Puskas hits it for six with the onslaught of single-bite snacks that kick off his considered tasting menu, and follows it through to the end with his stupidly good signature dessert: a housemade mead vinegar custard with raspberries and strawberry consommé. 
Time Out tip: Summon the pros for assistance with the wine list, which is packed with treasures.What is it? One of Australia’s most cherished restaurants, tucked away in an unassuming Stanmore corner terrace.Why we love it: Even though this is about as big-ticket as restaurants get, the intimate and unpretentious mood will make you feel right at home. Chef Dan Puskas hits it for six with the onslaught of single-bite snacks that kick off his considered tasting menu, and follows it through to the end with his stupidly good signature dessert: a housemade mead vinegar custard with raspberries and strawberry consommé. Time Out tip: Summon the pros for assistance with the wine list, which is packed with treasures.
9. Ester
https://www.timeout.com/sydney/restaurants/ester-restaurant-and-bar
What is it? A reliable favourite for dishes with a point of difference, given love in the wood-fired oven.
Why we love it: So many things here – the fermented potato bread with kefir cream and dashi jelly, those blood sausage sangas, that ice cream fashioned from yesterday’s sourdough bread – take top billing on the Sydney dining dance card, with very good reason. 
Time Out tip: There’s never a bad time to be at Ester, but if there’s a best time, it’s Sunday lunch, when sunlight spills into the bare-bones room and one bottle of funked-up natty wine turns into three in a flash.What is it? A reliable favourite for dishes with a point of difference, given love in the wood-fired oven.Why we love it: So many things here – the fermented potato bread with kefir cream and dashi jelly, those blood sausage sangas, that ice cream fashioned from yesterday’s sourdough bread – take top billing on the Sydney dining dance card, with very good reason. Time Out tip: There’s never a bad time to be at Ester, but if there’s a best time, it’s Sunday lunch, when sunlight spills into the bare-bones room and one bottle of funked-up natty wine turns into three in a flash.
10. Sean's
https://www.timeout.com/sydney/restaurants/seans-panaroma

What is it? The beachside benchmark for ‘paddock-to-plate’ dining, now nearing its third decade of operation. 
Why we love it: Every Tom, Dick and Harriet focuses on the local, seasonal and sustainable these days, but chef-owner Sean Moran was something of a visionary when he opened this Bondi stayer in 1993. His roast chook is the epitome of comfort food, and the room’s coastal kitschiness never gets tired.
Time Out tip: A long Sunday lunch on a sunny summer’s day is the ticket here – and with a reasonable $25 corkage fee, it pays to bring a special bottle along with you.What is it? The beachside benchmark for ‘paddock-to-plate’ dining, now nearing its third decade of operation. Why we love it: Every Tom, Dick and Harriet focuses on the local, seasonal and sustainable these days, but chef-owner Sean Moran was something of a visionary when he opened this Bondi stayer in 1993. His roast chook is the epitome of comfort food, and the room’s coastal kitschiness never gets tired.Time Out tip: A long Sunday lunch on a sunny summer’s day is the ticket here – and with a reasonable $25 corkage fee, it pays to bring a special bottle along with you.
11. LuMi
https://www.timeout.com/sydney/restaurants/lumi
What is it? A glassed-in box at the end of a Pyrmont wharf showcasing a show-stopping collision of Japanese and Italian influences.
Why we love it: It might fly a bit under the radar compared to some of the other heavy hitters on this list, but ask a handful of big-name chefs where they’d head on a night off, and it’s a guarantee that LuMi will come up. Simply put, there’s no other top-end restaurant tasting menu quite like it.
Time Out tip: Prepare yourself for rich dishes, and don’t eat much beforehand – this is no-holds-barred territory.What is it? A glassed-in box at the end of a Pyrmont wharf showcasing a show-stopping collision of Japanese and Italian influences.Why we love it: It might fly a bit under the radar compared to some of the other heavy hitters on this list, but ask a handful of big-name chefs where they’d head on a night off, and it’s a guarantee that LuMi will come up. Simply put, there’s no other top-end restaurant tasting menu quite like it.Time Out tip: Prepare yourself for rich dishes, and don’t eat much beforehand – this is no-holds-barred territory.
12. Odd Culture Newtown
https://www.timeout.com/sydney/restaurants/odd-culture-newtown
What is it? Outstanding dishes that explore fermentation with polished service and fascinating wine.
Why we love it: The lauded Happy Chef space on King Street has finally seen it's better day. Odd Culture Newtown is a two-level craft beer, natural wine and ferment-happy diner from the group that brought us the Oxford Tav, the Old Fitz and the Duke of Enmore. With friends like that, you know it's going to be all killer, no filler. There's even a sister venue just a few doors down that sells amazing natural wine and wild ales that you can take home or drink over dinner.
Time Out tip: Order the fish on toast, then order it again.
 What is it? Outstanding dishes that explore fermentation with polished service and fascinating wine.Why we love it: The lauded Happy Chef space on King Street has finally seen it's better day. Odd Culture Newtown is a two-level craft beer, natural wine and ferment-happy diner from the group that brought us the Oxford Tav, the Old Fitz and the Duke of Enmore. With friends like that, you know it's going to be all killer, no filler. There's even a sister venue just a few doors down that sells amazing natural wine and wild ales that you can take home or drink over dinner.Time Out tip: Order the fish on toast, then order it again. 
13. Bentley Restaurant and Bar
https://www.timeout.com/sydney/restaurants/bentley-restaurant-and-bar

What is it? The flagship CBD fine diner from all-star chef-sommelier duo Brent Savage and Nick Hildebrandt.
Why we love it: Wildly creative flavour combinations that perpetually push the boundaries of “Australian food” and one of the country’s standout wine lists have kept Bentley high on almost every ‘Best Of’ list since the doors swung open at the Surry Hills original. Fourteen years on, it’s still kicking goals. 
Time Out tip: Prefer not to strap in for the full tasting-menu experience? Pull up a pew at the bar for schmick small plates and a glass of something glorious instead.What is it? The flagship CBD fine diner from all-star chef-sommelier duo Brent Savage and Nick Hildebrandt.Why we love it: Wildly creative flavour combinations that perpetually push the boundaries of “Australian food” and one of the country’s standout wine lists have kept Bentley high on almost every ‘Best Of’ list since the doors swung open at the Surry Hills original. Fourteen years on, it’s still kicking goals. Time Out tip: Prefer not to strap in for the full tasting-menu experience? Pull up a pew at the bar for schmick small plates and a glass of something glorious instead.
14. Hubert
https://www.timeout.com/sydney/restaurants/hubert
What is it? The Swillhouse Group's beast of a brasserie, in a CBD basement bathed in OTT Belle Époque detail.
Why we love it: Hubert isn’t afraid to lean into the cheeky, tricked-up theatrics that make for a night to remember. Fortunately, food quality and service smarts aren’t sacrificed in the process. This is the total package, topped off with stupendous crème caramel that'll stick to your ribs.
Time Out tip: A handful of private dining rooms and larger-than-life mains make this an ideal spot for a group. There's even a cinema you can hire for an all-out shindig.What is it? The Swillhouse Group's beast of a brasserie, in a CBD basement bathed in OTT Belle Époque detail.Why we love it: Hubert isn’t afraid to lean into the cheeky, tricked-up theatrics that make for a night to remember. Fortunately, food quality and service smarts aren’t sacrificed in the process. This is the total package, topped off with stupendous crème caramel that'll stick to your ribs.Time Out tip: A handful of private dining rooms and larger-than-life mains make this an ideal spot for a group. There's even a cinema you can hire for an all-out shindig.
15. Margaret
https://www.timeout.com/sydney/restaurants/margaret
What is it? Hospitality veteran, Neil Perry has upped stumps and moved on over to Double Bay, with his signature fusion of modern Australian with Asian flavour.
Why we love it: The family vibe at Margaret is palpable, and all the things we love about Perry's cooking are still at the fore. Spectacular aged beef, a whole glass fridge of oysters and specially imported wines you won't find anywhere else.
Time Out tip: Grab yourself a Martini, Perry's mother, and restaurant namesake's favourite. Build it yourself and another follows straight after.What is it? Hospitality veteran, Neil Perry has upped stumps and moved on over to Double Bay, with his signature fusion of modern Australian with Asian flavour.Why we love it: The family vibe at Margaret is palpable, and all the things we love about Perry's cooking are still at the fore. Spectacular aged beef, a whole glass fridge of oysters and specially imported wines you won't find anywhere else.Time Out tip: Grab yourself a Martini, Perry's mother, and restaurant namesake's favourite. Build it yourself and another follows straight after.
16. Firedoor
https://www.timeout.com/sydney/restaurants/firedoor
What is it? Hyper-seasonal plates of premium produce and pristine proteins from a kitchen powered solely by firewood and open flames.
Why we love it: More and more chefs are cooking with fire these days, but none pull it off like Lennox Hastie and his team. They pinpoint what makes ingredients sing – whether it’s an asparagus spear or a 200+ day dry-aged beef rib – and heighten your respect for the subtleties of cooking in the process.
Time Out tip: Watch Hastie in action on the latest series of Chef’s Table if you haven’t. If you have, then you know the bar is the only place to sit.What is it? Hyper-seasonal plates of premium produce and pristine proteins from a kitchen powered solely by firewood and open flames.Why we love it: More and more chefs are cooking with fire these days, but none pull it off like Lennox Hastie and his team. They pinpoint what makes ingredients sing – whether it’s an asparagus spear or a 200+ day dry-aged beef rib – and heighten your respect for the subtleties of cooking in the process.Time Out tip: Watch Hastie in action on the latest series of Chef’s Table if you haven’t. If you have, then you know the bar is the only place to sit.
17. Chaco Bar
https://www.timeout.com/sydney/restaurants/chaco-bar-1
What is it? Real-deal Japanese with a modern twang, anchored by astoundingly delicious yakitori.
Why we love it: Chef-owner Keita Abe established himself as a master of the robata grill when Chaco Bar burst onto the scene in a Darlinghurst bunker half a decade ago. His recent move to roomier Potts Point quarters finds him painting with broader strokes and putting together a generous tasting menu that’s a testament to his talent.
Time Out tip: Abe is also one of the most revered ramen chefs around, and he’s leading the charge for new-wave noodle soups at the original site, now Chaco Ramen. What is it? Real-deal Japanese with a modern twang, anchored by astoundingly delicious yakitori.Why we love it: Chef-owner Keita Abe established himself as a master of the robata grill when Chaco Bar burst onto the scene in a Darlinghurst bunker half a decade ago. His recent move to roomier Potts Point quarters finds him painting with broader strokes and putting together a generous tasting menu that’s a testament to his talent.Time Out tip: Abe is also one of the most revered ramen chefs around, and he’s leading the charge for new-wave noodle soups at the original site, now Chaco Ramen. 
18. Automata
https://www.timeout.com/sydney/restaurants/automata
What is it? A provocative degustation-only diner that flips the fine-dining script, courtesy of acclaimed chef Clatyon Wells.
Why we love it: Prices may have crept up over the years, but the kitchen’s exactitude and highly original point of view have not waned. So much thought goes into these dishes, which are layered to the high heavens with acid, fat, ferments and a pantry’s worth of Japanese ingredients.
Time Out tip: Swing by for a quickie if you’re in the neighbourhood – a few bar stools and the outside tables are reserved for bevvies and a small selection of ace bar snacks. What is it? A provocative degustation-only diner that flips the fine-dining script, courtesy of acclaimed chef Clatyon Wells.Why we love it: Prices may have crept up over the years, but the kitchen’s exactitude and highly original point of view have not waned. So much thought goes into these dishes, which are layered to the high heavens with acid, fat, ferments and a pantry’s worth of Japanese ingredients.Time Out tip: Swing by for a quickie if you’re in the neighbourhood – a few bar stools and the outside tables are reserved for bevvies and a small selection of ace bar snacks. 
19. 10 William Street
https://www.timeout.com/sydney/restaurants/10-william-street
What is it? An effortlessly cool, poky natural wine bar and restaurant in a two-storey Paddo terrace.
Why we love it: This is as close as you’ll get in Sydney to a destination-worthy drinking spot in the backstreets of Paris or Milan. The soft pretzel with whipped bottarga is still THE bar snack to be reckoned with, housemade pastas are properly al dente and it’s never a question of which bottle of wine from the forward-thinking list to choose, but how many. Here’s to that.
Time Out tip: Save room for what is, without question, the tip-top tiramisù in town.What is it? An effortlessly cool, poky natural wine bar and restaurant in a two-storey Paddo terrace.Why we love it: This is as close as you’ll get in Sydney to a destination-worthy drinking spot in the backstreets of Paris or Milan. The soft pretzel with whipped bottarga is still THE bar snack to be reckoned with, housemade pastas are properly al dente and it’s never a question of which bottle of wine from the forward-thinking list to choose, but how many. Here’s to that.Time Out tip: Save room for what is, without question, the tip-top tiramisù in town.
20. Sáng by Mabasa
https://www.timeout.com/sydney/restaurants/sang-by-mabasa
What is it? Heartfelt Korean cooking in a Surry Hills bolthole that will make you reevaluate your definition of ‘hole-in-the-wall’.
Why we love it: Watching owner Kenny Yong Soo Son and his family work together in the teensy open kitchen sparks total joy. Yes, Korean fried chicken, mandoo and dolsot bibimbap are on offer, but branching out into more unfamiliar territory here yields incredibly delicious and memorable rewards.
Time Out tip: You can count the number of chairs at Sáng on your fingers and toes, so bookings are essential. The drinks list packs a fair bit of interest onto a single page, but it’s also BYO. What is it? Heartfelt Korean cooking in a Surry Hills bolthole that will make you reevaluate your definition of ‘hole-in-the-wall’.Why we love it: Watching owner Kenny Yong Soo Son and his family work together in the teensy open kitchen sparks total joy. Yes, Korean fried chicken, mandoo and dolsot bibimbap are on offer, but branching out into more unfamiliar territory here yields incredibly delicious and memorable rewards.Time Out tip: You can count the number of chairs at Sáng on your fingers and toes, so bookings are essential. The drinks list packs a fair bit of interest onto a single page, but it’s also BYO. 
