Quay - Upper Level Overseas Passenger Terminal, The Rocks
4.5 stars
If you fancy a fine dining experience with panoramic views of Sydney harbour and Sydney’s pristine waters, this is a great option for you. They offer an extensive menu by Australian chef Peter Gilmore.
La salut - 305 Cleveland St, Redfern 
4.7 stars
This spot is inspired by Barcelona, Spain. It offers a menu by chef Scott McComas-Williams bringing a taste of Spain to Redfern, Sydney. It showcases the peak of Australian produce. 
Lankan filling station - Ground Floor, 58 Riley St, Darlinghurst 
4.2 stars
This is a casual eatery, where our food is inspired by traditional Sri Lankan flavours seen through the eyes of Australia. It features a Modern restaurant serving Sri Lankan pancakes, curries & drinks in an easygoing ambience by chef and owner O Tama Carey.
Cafe Paci - 131 King street, Newtown
4.7 stars
This hip industrial-chic restaurant offers a gourmet menu of Modern Australian dishes with a twist by finnish-bornn chef Pasi Petanen. The menu explores his Finnish roots with influence drawing from Mexican and Vietnamese cuisine.
Lola’s Level 1 - Level 1/180/186 Campbell Parade, Bondi Beach
3.6 stars
The South European-inspired menu features generously portioned dishes with a clever mix of sharing. The adage to food is to be free spirited, so think of the flavours of Italy, Spain, Greece and the Mediterranean Coast.
Saint Peter - 362 Oxford St, Paddington
4.6 stars
A highly rated seafood restaurant with a fresh and unique menu by Chef Josh Niland. Dry-aged fish is worth a try and is what Niland is renowned for, this restaurant gives quite the experience with the Chef cooking in front of you.
Ursula’s Paddington - 92 Hargrave St, Paddington 
4.5 stars
At his first solo restaurant, acclaimed chef Phil Wood explores and expands Australian cuisine with a produce-driven menu combining classic European cooking. Private dining and group bookings are also available.
Sixpenny - 83 Percival Rd, Stanmore
4.8 stars
Chefs Daniel Puskas and Anthony Schifilliti lead the kitchen in utilising homegrown local suppliers, growers and producers to focus on creating a narrative around all things that make-up Australia. The restaurant is a cosy space which serves modern Australian food. Reservations are required and events can be held here.
Ester - 46_52 meagher st, chippendale 
4.5 stars
Trendy restaurant executing eclectic dishes in a concrete-walled space with a wood-fired oven. Australian cuisine
Sean’s Panorama - 270 Campbell Parade, North Bondi 
4.1 stars
Small, market-driven restaurant with tasting menus and set meals, plus outdoor seats and surf views. Affectionately known as ‘Sean’s’ since opening in 1993, our little ‘salty jewel’ of a restaurant serves comforting home–style food balanced with modern tastes. A small but affordable spot.